REFLECTION

For this capstone project, I somewhat built off the idea for HW 9, in regards to using a sign language application. First, I wanted to create a mobile app; I used an agentic process by writing a SPEC.md, and then using Github Copilot to create the first stage of the app using Expo Go and React Native. I implemented basic fingerspelling first to get the foundations down — simply translating fingerspelled letters to English and vice versa. However, as I tried to integrate these computer vision modules, I ran into compatiability errors with the mobile stack. For instance, computer vision modules like Tensorflow and Google’s Media Pipe were not integrating. Thus, I needed to pivot to a webapp which allowed for more flexibility in the modules/services I could use. After, I mainly focused on UI and design to ensure a visually appealing while still functional application. 

I used ChatGPT to brainstorm ideas first. Then, I mainly used Github Copilot as I used an agentic process like in HW 8 to generate the initial app, and review the code through another chat. I reprompted it to change it to a webapp as well when I pivoted. I used Claude to generate UI designs and wireframes after giving it my vision, and also used Codex (another AI agent) throughout the process. 

With the agentic process, Github Copilot and Codex were natural choices for me to use; using them together also allowed for more power and helped with the token limits. Claude is good for generating designs, so I wanted to use it to create wireframes that I could then feed into the agentic AI as inspiration for the frontend. 

Before 113, I would likely approach this project by only using conversational chatbots. I would likely stick to ChatGPT or Gemini since that is what I was used to and familiar with. I wasn’t really aware of the agentic approach and process before this class, so I likely wouldn’t have used “agent” mode in the IDE’s if I did use them. I think I feel more equipped to create projects like this within a reasonable time frame as I learned new processes, skills, and prompt engineering to efficiently create applications. Going back and forth and copying/pasting with a conversational chatbot is slow and may not be as efficient as other techniques learned in this class. 

With more time, I would want to expand the scope of the project regarding translation. Currently, there are only a fingerspelling translation for ASL letters (both English -> ASL and ASL -> English), only providing the option to take pictures. I want to expand this to actual ASL signs, giving the user the option to record a video of them signing a real word/phrase/sentence, and translating to English (and vice versa), since that is what real translation looks like that could help the Deaf community. I would also create a practice section and add more features like practice quizzes, sign of the day, or special lessons for different occasions/holidays. This could act as a study/practice tool for ASL learners and foster a greater sense of community and belonging, adding more interaction and engagement through the app. 
